OCPBUGS#30031: Doc improvements related to "Monitoring" section (#72264)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/lvms-monitoring-logical-volume-manager-operator.adoc

[id="lvms-monitoring-using-lvms_{context}"]
= Monitoring {lvms}

To enable cluster monitoring, you must add the following label in the namespace where you have installed {lvms}:
[source,text]
----

> openshift.io/cluster-monitoring=true

Reviewer: I'm not fully sure on the context of where to apply this command. Add to a config file, assign to an environment variable, or launch a tool and specify the command there?

Examples from the Adding custom metrics link:

![Screenshot from 2024-03-08 10-24-48](https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/assets/57954076/0fa2dae9-8fd6-4062-98a4-b239e8d59752)
![Screenshot from 2024-03-08 10-24-51](https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/assets/57954076/c8a813fb-6153-4226-b220-d46541e8e9c9)

Author: This label must be added in a namespace:

![Screenshot from 2024-03-08 16-43-01](https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/assets/148952239/1cbcfa96-3a3c-4330-a560-463966321630)

Click *Edit* to add a new label.

Reviewer: Ah, OK. Thanks. This makes sense.

----

[IMPORTANT]
====
For information about enabling cluster monitoring in {rh-rhacm}, see link:https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_advanced_cluster_management_for_kubernetes/{rh-rhacm-version}/html-single/observability/index[Observability] and link:https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_advanced_cluster_management_for_kubernetes/{rh-rhacm-version}/html-single/observability/index#adding-custom-metrics[Adding custom metrics].
====

[id="lvms-monitoring-using-lvms-metrics_{context}"]
== Metrics

You can monitor {lvms} by viewing the metrics.

The following table describes the `topolvm` metrics:

.`topolvm` metrics

> [%autowidth,frame="topbot",options="header"]

Reviewer: I like this table. I know "topbot" is valid a HTML component but [Asciidoctor](https://docs.asciidoctor.org/asciidoc/latest/tables/borders/) does not list it. Or platforms can be a bit funny when it comes to supporting cetain syntax. I do not want to kill your formatting buzz but asking a merge reviewer to check how platform docs render on Pantheon would be worthwile.

|===
|Alert | Description
|`topolvm_thinpool_data_percent` | Indicates the percentage of data space used in the LVM thinpool.
|`topolvm_thinpool_metadata_percent` | Indicates the percentage of metadata space used in the LVM thinpool. 
|`topolvm_thinpool_size_bytes` | Indicates the size of the LVM thin pool in bytes.
|`topolvm_volumegroup_available_bytes` | Indicates the available space in the LVM volume group in bytes.
|`topolvm_volumegroup_size_bytes` | Indicates the size of the LVM volume group in bytes.
|`topolvm_thinpool_overprovisioned_available` | Indicates the available over-provisioned size of the LVM thin pool in bytes.
|===

[NOTE]
====
Metrics are updated every 10 minutes or when there is a change, such as a new logical volume creation, in the thin pool.
====

[id="lvms-monitoring-using-lvms-alerts_{context}"]
== Alerts

When the thin pool and volume group reach maximum storage capacity, further operations fail. This can lead to data loss.

> {lvms} sends the following alerts when the utilization of the thin pool and volume group crosses a certain value:

Reviewer: ![Screenshot from 2024-03-08 10-32-21](https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/assets/57954076/a2dcbee9-ba09-4e51-ab26-90eff2f7ac44)

Author: Updated as per the suggestion.

> {lvms} sends the following alerts when the utilization of the thin pool and volume group crosses a certain value:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{lvms} sends the following alerts when the usage of the thin pool and volume group exceeds a certain value:
```

Author: Updated as per the suggestion.

.LVM Storage alerts
[%autowidth,frame="topbot",options="header"]
|===
|Alert| Description
|`VolumeGroupUsageAtThresholdNearFull`|This alert is triggered when both the volume group and thin pool utilization cross 75% on nodes. Data deletion or volume group expansion is required.
|`VolumeGroupUsageAtThresholdCritical`|This alert is triggered when both the volume group and thin pool utilization cross 85% on nodes. In this case, the volume group is critically full. Data deletion or volume group expansion is required.
|`ThinPoolDataUsageAtThresholdNearFull`|This alert is triggered when the thin pool data utilization in the volume group crosses 75% on nodes. Data deletion or thin pool expansion is required.

> |`ThinPoolDataUsageAtThresholdCritical`|This alert is triggered when the thin pool data utilization in the volume group crosses 85% on nodes. Data deletion or thin pool expansion is required.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|`ThinPoolDataUsageAtThresholdCritical`|This alert is triggered when the thin pool data usage in the volume group exceeds 85% on nodes. Data deletion or thin pool expansion is required.
```

Author: Updated as per the suggestion.
